Okay, so let's go ahead and zoom in here,
so the first thing I want to do here
is just do a copy/paste on my previous project.
So let's copy the 05-inheritance project,
and let's paste it here and we'll give it a new name.
And the new name that we'll give this project,
we'll call it 06-abstract-classes.
Okay, so let's do some quick housekeeping here so,
the two files here, Driver.js and Driver.ts
I want to delete these two files
because I'll simply use my array version later on.
So let's go ahead and delete Driver.js and Driver.ts.
Okay, so let's go ahead and open up Shape.ts,
and I want to mark this class as being abstract
so I simply use the abstract keyword.
All right, so down at the bottom I'm going to add
an abstract method.
So calculateArea,
and notice here there's no implementation,
there's no body because we'll actually get
the implementation from the concrete sub-classes.
So one thing is, if I move back to the array
Driver.ts then we'll actually see an error
and it'll tell us, hey, cannot create
an instance of an abstract class.
And we know that, right?
We're aware of that.
So I'll actually remove this line of code here,
so I'll remove the myShape
and I'll also do a similar thing here
on adding it to the array, remove that item
because we can't create an instance of an abstract class.
I'm moving to Rectangle.ts and so there's another
error here and if we kind of float over it
it says this non-abstract class does not
implement the inherited abstract member calculateArea.
All right, cool.
So that means I need to write the code for calculateArea.
And what I can do here is actually make use
of the quick fix.
All right, so this is the little tip
that I told you about earlier.
We can do a quick fix and we can implement
the inherited abstract class.
And it'll give me the method here, calculateArea.
Cool, I like it.
So now, I'll simply remove the placeholder code,
and I'll implement the calculateArea method.
So the area of a rectangle, right,
is width times length.
And then we have a similar issue here in circle.ts, right,
we haven't implemented the abstract method.
I'll do the similar trick here of implement
the inherited abstract class.
And I'll just update the code here.
So this is Math.PI times Math.power radius, comma, two.
So, radius squared.
And remember, this math is a built-in object
that has the properties and methods
for mathematical constance and functions.
So, that's our Pi R squared, okay that's great.
So, this looks pretty good over here on our array driver.
I'll add some code here to calculateArea.
I'll also do a console.log on just a new line
and again I could have used the back-slash N
but here just keeping it simple for now.
And now moving into my terminal,
make sure I move into the correct directory,
06-abstract-classes.
Compile, run,
and the first output here is for array of circle.
So Pi R squared and the second one here
is the area of rectangle, width times length.
All right, so this looks good.
We're able to set up an example here using abstract classes.
Good job!